# What is Panoptilog?

Panoptilog is a portmanteau of [panopticon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon)
and [log](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logging_(computing)). It was inspired
by DARPA's [lifelog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DARPA_LifeLog) project.

The allusions to surveillance tools are somewhat tongue-in-cheek. My intentions
with this project are to enable myself to automatically journal and analyze
data on my own life. However, I want to acknowledge that the software I'm
building ultimately do amount to surveillance tools, albeit for
self-surveillance. A journal isn't spyware if one is introspecting, but an
automated journal -- wherein one is *externally observed* -- can be construed
as such even if the person observed has sole control over that data. Thus, I
named the project what I did lest I get too comfortable with that idea.

Personal data is not intrinsically valuable; rather, its worth lies in the
fact that knowledge of one's private life translates to power over that
person. At present, we leave behind a digital trail every time we open an
internet-connected device. Many for-profit companies are interested in
exploiting this trail to influence consumer spending. Many governments are
interested in it to gain leverage over their adversaries.

What if we retained such logs on ourselves? A near-complete record of our own
digital trail: one that can be indexed and searched *privately* for our own
personal discovery and enrichment. There is an assymmetry in data analysis
capabilities between individuals and service providers. Panoptilog seeks to
lessen this gap. If leaving digital footprints is inevitable, then individuals
should at least have equal ability to journal and draw insights from their own
data.

All Panoptilog software are [copyleft](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyleft)
licensed and freely modifiable.
